# Financial Reports Refactors

## Current State

- Reports views are located as tabs in Accounting feature.
- There are 2 reports tabs: Reports and Fiscal Years.
- The Reports tab has table displaying a report.
- The displayed report can be pick by choosing drop-down filter Report Type (Trial Balance, Balance Sheet, Income Statement) and Report Date (The date when reports are generate).
- The Reports tab has Generate Report button that instantly generate Trial Balance and Balance sheet.
- The Income Statemenet reports are generated by Fiscal Years. (Read 001-accounting.sql schema as source of truth)

## The Issues with Current State:

- The Reports view is not scalable. Everytime report generated it adds item to Report Date drop-down. Material 3 Expressive dropdown is just regular select component. It is not meant to handle possible infinite data.
- The Generate action need to be more controllable. It need a way to set the report time.
- The income statement is irrelevant in Reports tab. It should exclusively be tied to each Fisal Years reporting.

## Expected State

- Reports tab shall display table of generated reports. The table consists of columns: Report Date, Snapshot Date (create_time), and Actions (View Balance Sheet, View Trial Balance).
- The Generate Report button shall display dialog to input the Report Date-time.
- The Fiscal Years details shall be more comprehensive, need overall redesign to display:
  - Snapshot of balance reports before closing
  - Closing statements
  - Snapshot of balance reports after closing
  - Income Statement

## Conclusion

This document describes outline of reporting feature. The developer has suficient information to refactor the reporting feature. Read the schemas for source of truth.